thousands of Fighters broke out of Gaza
and tore down the Israeli fence from
multiple
locations defenses worth billions of
dollars including remote controlled
machine guns and tank units failed to
stop the
onslaught intelligence failure is to
blame Israeli officials as the scale
coordination and intelligence operations
of hamas's attack became evident in
spite of a 16year Siege and blockade of
Gaza some of the highest C uales were at
this music festival now police reports
say some were killed by Israeli Attack
Helicopters Israeli media says a
specific kill protocol was used which
allows hostages to be taken out with
their captors it's called the Hannibal
[Music]
directive
even soldiers took cover among unarmed
people here soldiers falling back among
those with no weapons is not considered
using them as human Shields between 6:30
to 10:00 a.m. hundreds of Fighters
engaged with Israeli Security Forces
this vehicle which seems to be entering
kibuts ber was later seemed to be burned
beyond recognition and many other
vehicles were destroyed in the same way
some with people inside Israeli
officials now say hundreds of burnt
bodies were those of Hamas
Fighters as it's revised down the death
toll from 1400 to about 1200 people some
corpses were burned beyond recognition
and the question remains who burned
them journalists taken on tours of the
kibuts showed exposed beams and torn
down homes to inflict this damage
Superior Firepower or equipment would be
required one witness from kibuts Berry
told Israeli public broadcaster Khan
that a 12-year-old Israeli girl was was
killed when an Israeli tank fired two
rounds at the house they were being kept
by Hamas Fighters some tank operators
have admitted to opening Fire Within
communities
Israeli paper haret says netanyahu's
remarks to US President Joe Biden were
inaccurate disturbing reports such as
dozens of beheaded babies or burnt
babies or hanged babies are also
unsubstantiated testimonies of people
from zaka and United hatala search and
rescue organization have been debunked
by evidence from the kibuts another
dubious claim made by the prime
minister's wife Sarah Netanyahu in a
letter to us first lady Jill Biden has
also not been proven she said one of the
pregnant women was abducted into Gaza
where she gave birth since then the
thigh woman has been released she was
never pregnant nor gave
birth Israel responded around 10:00 a.m.
on October 7 as residential Towers like
this were destroyed in
Gaza and its Relentless campaign to
eliminate Hamas continues Palestinians
say the disproportionate response
amounts to genocide Sama B Javi
alera all right we're now joined by Mark
Owen Jones he's an associate professor
of Middle East studies at hammed bin
Khalifa University joining us here on
set thanks for speaking to us on Al
jazer so as we just heard in the report
a number of claims have been made in the
aftermath of of October the 7th are we
now getting a clearer picture of what
exactly happened I think we are I think
it's very clear what happened on October
the 7th has been um you know it's been
packaged rapidly and tried to be
contributed to legitimize what Israel
are doing in Gaza and as that report
showed we've we've seen a number of key
things that have demonstrated that some
of the most outlandish claims have been
false including for example the
beheading of 40 babies um the revision
of the death toll of Israelis which was
initially 1,200 and then went down to
1,000 on accounts that some of the
bodies were so badly burnt uh that that
they actually recognized later that they
were Hammer Fighters and I think there's
a real interesting irony here I don't
know if it was mentioned but Biden had
casted out on the figur supplied by the
Palestinian Ministry of Health early on
in the conflict at the time we had
covered that story yeah exactly and
saying that oh we can't trust these
figures uh and even though these figures
have been historically accurate and have
been corroborated by Human Rights Watch
and amnesty and now we have a situation
where Israel have actually acknowledged
that their initial death toll was was
too high yet that hasn't been questioned
for example by Joe Biden and I think
that's emblematic of the the notion of
how us is supporting Israel in such a
way um and you know believing everything
they say that happened on October 7th
because everything that happened October
7th has been the main justification for
what we're seeing now which is
essentially genocide look amid the fog
of War Mark do we expect misinformation
to spread of course we expect
misinformation to spread that's very
normal but I think the issue is not
necessarily misinformation it's the
problem of disinformation which is
deliberately spreading false information
and I think of course there was you know
it was very hard to see what was going
on for a lot of people but at the same
time if you are the president of the
United States for example you want to
know for sure if a story about 40
beheaded babies or beheaded baby was
true before saying it because often when
we have information it filters through
regular levels there's no way that the
US President should say anything like
that unless he's sure of it hetic
question okay forgive the simplistic
question but what would be the the
intent behind spreading uh
disinformation the spread of
disinformation is trying to legitimize
public support and US political support
for a brutal response uh in in Gaza
that's the only way and the the the
beheaded B baby story is really
important because killing children is
seen as a massive moral transgression
everywhere but not just killing them
beheading them because beheading is
fitting into this narrative that the
Israelis have tried to push from day one
which was Hamas is like Isis you know
beheading is seen as somehow more
barbaric than bombing thousand and
killing thousands of of children which
doesn't make it into the speeches of
Biden uh look uh we also hear this
assertion by Western governments and we
heard it a lot during the first few
weeks that Israel has the right to
defend itself um
but we see According to some polls and
if you look at the United States for
example uh a poll there a recent poll
suggested that more than 60% of
Americans actually want to see far and
they want to see an end to this so to
what extent do you think that Israel's
Monopoly on the narrative has changed
now and has been broken by uh by public
opinion it's changed actually quite
early on in the war and that's what's
really interesting both in the US and
the UK the majority of people from both
different supporting different parties
actually support a ceas fund they won an
end to violence why because the violence
is so egregious they are seeing the Mass
Slaughter of civilians of course as
Humane people they want an end to it so
there's a massive disjuncture between
what citizens in these Democratic
countries want and what their
politicians are doing and I think also
this is contributing this sense of
alienation that the people have with the
political leaders who are supporting a
cause for political reasons of
geostrategic reasons and isolating their
constituencies and remember these are
democracies that are meant to be
responsive to the needs of the people
and we're not just talking about any
needs we're talking about an goinging
genocide and it's it's pretty phenomenal
actually how you can have democratically
elected leaders who are willing to ear a
blind eye to to this level of violence
all right Marco and Jones thank you so
much for giving us your thoughts